<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="text/css" http-equiv="Content-Style-Type"/>
<meta content="Amazon.com" name="generator"/>
<title>Unknown</title>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body class="calibre">
<div class="calibre1">
<p class="calibre11" id="calibre_pb_17"> <span class="calibre3"> </span> </p>
<p class="calibre4"> <span class="calibre3"> </span> </p>
<p class="calibre4"> <a id="_Toc536094236"><span class="calibre3"><span id="f001">3.  </span></span><span id="f002"><span class="calibre29">The Typical Method of</span></span></a> </p>
<p class="calibre4"> <span id="f003"><a id="_Toc536094237"><span class="calibre29">Political Thought</span></a></span> </p>
<p class="calibre4"> <span class="calibre3"> </span> </p>
<p class="calibre23"> <span id="f004"><span class="calibre7">It is easy to dismiss </span><span class="calibre20">De Monarchia</span></span><span class="calibre7"><span id="f005"> as having a solely historical, </span><span id="f006">archaic, </span><span id="f007">or biographical interest. </span><span id="f008">Few now would consider it seriously as a study of the nature and laws of politics, </span><span id="f009">of political behavior and principles. </span><span id="f010">We seldom, </span><span id="f011">now, </span><span id="f012">talk about “eternal salvation” in political treatises; </span><span id="f013">there is no more Holy Roman Empire; </span><span id="f014">scholastic metaphysics is a mystery for all but the neo-Thomists; </span><span id="f015">it is not fashionable to settle arguments by appeal to religious miracles and allegorical parables from the Bible or the Fathers. </span></span> </p>
<p class="calibre27"> <span class="calibre7"><span id="f016">All this is so, </span><span id="f017">and yet it would be a great error to suppose that Dante’s method, </span><span id="f018">in  </span></span><span id="f019"><span class="calibre20">De Monarchia</span></span><span class="calibre7"><span id="f020">, </span><span id="f021">is outworn. </span><span id="f022">His method is exactly that of the Democratic Platform with which we began our inquiry. </span><span id="f023">It has been and continues to be the method of nine-tenths, </span><span id="f024">yes, </span><span id="f025">much more than nine-tenths, </span><span id="f026">of all writing and speaking in the field of politics. </span><span id="f027">The myths, </span><span id="f028">the ghosts, </span><span id="f029">the idealistic abstractions, </span><span id="f030">change name and form, </span><span id="f031">but the method persistently remains. </span><span id="f032">It is, </span><span id="f033">then, </span><span id="f034">important to be entirely clear about the general features of this method. </span><span id="f035">They may be summarized as follows: </span></span> </p>
<p class="calibre27"> <span class="calibre7"><span id="f036">1. </span><span id="f037">There is a sharp divorce between what I have called the formal meaning, </span><span id="f038">the formal aims and arguments, </span><span id="f039">and the real meaning, </span><span id="f040">the real aims and argument (if there is, </span><span id="f041">as there is usually not, </span><span id="f042">any real argument). </span></span> </p>
<p class="calibre27"> <span class="calibre7"><span id="f043">2. </span><span id="f044">The formal aims and goals are for the most part or altogether either supernatural or metaphysical-transcendental—in both cases meaningless from the point of view of real actions in the real world of space and time and history; </span><span id="f045">or, </span><span id="f046">if they have some empirical meaning, </span><span id="f047">are impossible to achieve under the actual conditions of social life. </span><span id="f048">In all three cases, </span><span id="f049">the dependence of the whole structure of reasoning upon such goals makes it impossible for the writer (or speaker) to give a true descriptive account of the way men actually behave. </span><span id="f050">A systematic distortion of the truth takes place. </span><span id="f051">And, </span><span id="f052">obviously, </span><span id="f053">it cannot be shown how the goals might be reached, </span><span id="f054">since, </span><span id="f055">being unreal, </span><span id="f056">they cannot be reached. </span></span> </p>
<p class="calibre27"> <span class="calibre7"><span id="f057">3. </span><span id="f058">From a purely logical point of view, </span><span id="f059">the arguments offered for the formal aims and goals may be valid or fallacious; </span><span id="f060">but, </span><span id="f061">except by accident, </span><span id="f062">they are necessarily irrelevant to real political problems, </span><span id="f063">since they are designed to prove the ostensible points of the formal structure—points of religion or metaphysics, </span><span id="f064">or the abstract desirability of some utopian ideal. </span></span> </p>
<p class="calibre27"> <span class="calibre7"><span id="f065">4. </span><span id="f066">The formal meaning serves as an indirect expression of the real meaning—that is, </span><span id="f067">of the concrete meaning of the political treatise taken in its real context, </span><span id="f068">in its relation to the actualities of the social and historical situation in which it functions. </span><span id="f069">But at the same time that it expresses, </span><span id="f070">it also disguises the real meaning. </span><span id="f071">We think we are debating universal peace, </span><span id="f072">salvation, </span><span id="f073">a unified world government, </span><span id="f074">and the relations between Church and State, </span><span id="f075">when what is really at issue is whether the Florentine Republic is to be run by its own citizens or submitted to the exploitation of a reactionary foreign monarch. </span><span id="f076">We think, </span><span id="f077">with the delegates at the Council of Nicea, </span><span id="f078">that the discussion is concerned with the definition of God’s essence, </span><span id="f079">when the real problem is whether the Mediterranean world is to be politically centralized under Rome, </span><span id="f080">or divided. </span><span id="f081">We believe we are disputing the merits of a balanced budget and a sound currency when the real conflict is deciding what group shall regulate the distribution of the currency. </span><span id="f082">We imagine we are arguing over the moral and legal status of the principle of the freedom of the seas when the real question is who is to control the seas. </span></span> </p>
<p class="calibre27"> <span class="calibre7"><span id="f083">5. </span><span id="f084">From this it follows that the real meaning, </span><span id="f085">the real goal and aims, </span><span id="f086">are left irresponsible. </span><span id="f087">In Dante’s case the aims were also vicious and reactionary. </span><span id="f088">This need not be the case, </span><span id="f089">but, </span><span id="f090">when this method is used, </span><span id="f091">they are always irresponsible. </span><span id="f092">Even if the real aims are such as to contribute to human welfare, </span><span id="f093">no proof or evidence for this is offered. </span><span id="f094">Proof and evidence, </span><span id="f095">so far as they are present at all, </span><span id="f096">remain at the formal level. </span><span id="f097">The real aims are accepted, </span><span id="f098">even if right, </span><span id="f099">for the wrong reasons. </span><span id="f100">The high-minded words of the formal meaning serve only to arouse passion and prejudice and sentimentality in favor of the disguised real aims. </span></span> </p>
<p class="calibre27"> <span class="calibre7"><span id="f101">This method, </span><span id="f102">whose intellectual consequence is merely to confuse and hide, </span><span id="f103">can teach us nothing of the truth, </span><span id="f104">can in no way help us to solve the problems of our political life. </span><span id="f105">In the hands of the powerful and their spokesmen, </span><span id="f106">however, </span><span id="f107">used by demagogues or hypocrites or simply the self-deluded, </span><span id="f108">this method is well designed, </span><span id="f109">and the best, </span><span id="f110">to deceive us, </span><span id="f111">and to lead us by easy routes to the sacrifice of our own interests and dignity in the service of the mighty. </span></span> </p>
<p class="calibre31"> <span class="calibre7">*</span><span class="calibre32"><span class="calibre33"></span></span><span class="calibre7">*</span><span class="calibre32"><span class="calibre34"></span></span><span class="calibre7">*</span> </p>
<p class="calibre27"> <span class="calibre7"><span id="f112">The chief historical effects of the French Revolution were to break up the system of the older French monarchy, </span><span id="f113">with its privileged financiers and courtiers, </span><span id="f114">to remove a number of feudal restrictions on capitalist methods of production, </span><span id="f115">and to put the French capitalists into a position of greater social power. </span><span id="f116">It might well have been argued, </span><span id="f117">prior to the Revolution, </span><span id="f118">that these goals promised to contribute to the welfare of the French people and perhaps of mankind. </span><span id="f119">Evidence for and against this expectation might have been assembled. </span><span id="f120">However, </span><span id="f121">this was not the procedure generally followed by the ideologists of the Revolution. </span><span id="f122">They based their treatises not upon an examination of the facts, </span><span id="f123">but upon supposedly fundamental and really quite mythical notions of a primitive “state of nature,” the “natural goodness of man,” the “social contract,” and similar nonsense. </span><span id="f124">They sloganized, </span><span id="f125">as the aims of the Revolution, </span><span id="f126">Liberty, </span><span id="f127">Equality and Fraternity, </span><span id="f128">and the utopian kingdom of the Goddess Reason. </span><span id="f129">Naturally, </span><span id="f130">the workers and peasants were disappointed by the outcome, </span><span id="f131">after so much blood; </span><span id="f132">but, </span><span id="f133">oddly enough, </span><span id="f134">most of France seemed to feel not many years later that the aims of the Revolution were well enough realized in the military dictatorship of Bonaparte. </span></span> </p>
<p class="calibre27"> <span class="calibre7"><span id="f135">No doubt European unification under Hitler would have been evil for the European peoples and the world. </span><span id="f136">But this is no more proved by complicated deductions to show the derivation of Nazi thought from Hegelian dialectic and the philosophic poetry of Nietzsche than is the contradictory by Hitler’s own mystical pseudo-biology. “Freedom from want” is very nearly as meaningless, </span><span id="f137">in terms of real politics, </span><span id="f138">as “eternal salvation”—men are wanting beings; </span><span id="f139">they are freed from want only by death. </span><span id="f140">Whatever the book or article or speech on political matters that we turn to—those of a journalist like Pierre van Paassen, </span><span id="f141">a demagogue like Hitler, </span><span id="f142">a professor like Max Lerner, </span><span id="f143">a chairman of a sociology department like Pitirim Sorokin, </span><span id="f144">a revolutionist like Lenin, </span><span id="f145">a trapped idealist like Henry Wallace, </span><span id="f146">a bull-dozing rhetorician like Churchill, </span><span id="f147">a preacher out of a church like Norman Thomas or one in like Bishop Manning, </span><span id="f148">the Pope or the ministers of the Mikado—in the case of them all we find that, </span><span id="f149">though there may be incidental passages which increase our fund of real information, </span><span id="f150">the integrating method and the whole conception of politics is precisely that of Dante. </span><span id="f151">Gods, </span><span id="f152">whether of Progress or the Old Testament, </span><span id="f153">ghosts of saintly, </span><span id="f154">or revolutionary, </span><span id="f155">ancestors, </span><span id="f156">abstracted moral imperatives, </span><span id="f157">ideals cut wholly off from mere earth and mankind, </span><span id="f158">utopias beckoning from the marshes of their never-never-land—these, </span><span id="f159">and not the facts of social life together with probable generalizations based on those facts, </span><span id="f160">exercise the final controls over arguments and conclusions. </span><span id="f161">Political analysis becomes, </span><span id="f162">like other dreams, </span><span id="f163">the expression of human wish or the admission of practical failure. </span></span> </p>
<div class="calibre10" id="calibre_pb_18"></div>
</div>
</body></html>
